snatch and smash it's the viral Trend
that's Breaking All the Rules and maybe
your phone this clip with over 6 million
views on Tik Tok shows an elderly man
sneaking up on an unsuspecting Zoomer
snatching her phone and smashing it
right in front of her hey Billy did you
see this on the TV news it's fake news
dad look it's the same guy in a
different hat I reverse AI searched him
and his LinkedIn employer just says he
has contracts at Google and apple it's
just a stunt to promote iCloud and
Google one you have the high drive right
no dad my generation can't afford BMWs
unsettling if true now it's time for
today's Tech tip minute where we're
going to be showing you an affordable
way to safeguard your data watch this I
press this button and instantly my
photos are sinking over the internet but
instead of to an expensive cloud storage
provider I'm backing up to the nas board
right behind me wow look at it Go of
course network attached storage or Nas
devices are nothing new what's special
here is the value the friendly elec CM
3588 Nas kit costs about what you'd
spend for 2 terab of cloud storage per
year and its arm-based processor from
Rockchip crushes the CPU in this $700
bigname NZ as a bonus it's so efficient
it can be powered by just a 2 Amp 12vt
input there is one more thing you'll
need to know before you can stop paying
that monthly subscription and we're
going to tell you all about it after the
break super micro if you're in need of
high performance servers to support your
AI and machine learning workloads super
micro is here to
serve up some great options check out
their pedis scale oneu and 2u storage
servers at the link down
below despite being able to purchase the
CM 3588 Standalone it's really intended
to slot into their bundle $35 Nas kit
that comes equipped with 22 gig ethernet
three HDMI ports one in two out USB 3
USBC a Micro SD slot and the star of the
show four full-sized m.2 pcie gen 3
slots how is this only
$35 I mean I guess if you take away the
expensive bits like the so and the ram a
PCB and some connectors it even has gpio
still doesn't cost very much all we got
to do is install a cute little heat sink
click it into place and we're done but
this ease of use is only part of the
story the other part is modularity for
now friendly El only has this one board
but in the future who knows a SATA
version for hard drives or maybe one
with a PCI Express lot that would be
sick and what's cool is in the future if
your daughter board still meets your
needs but you want more performance you
could potentially upgrade the brain of
your tiny NZ without having to scrap the
whole thing I mean no promises the first
iteration kind of has to succeed for
there to be a followup but as it stands
right now I kind of love it this version
of the compute board comes with 4 gigs
of DDR 4X memory and no onboard storage
so the expectation is you either use the
SD slot on the nas kit or you upgrade to
the 8 or 16 gig ram versions which
include 64 gigs of emmc storage we ended
up with the ladder which brought our
price to
$160 it's not cheap but it's a really
solid value when you consider that
that's a onetime cost kind of like our
LT screwdriver HH One driver many
different bits let's get these drives
installed but while we're doing that
let's talk about the options that we
have each of these slots is a pcie gen
3x1 connection so that does limit our
bandwidth a little bit but it also opens
up some very interesting options for
example with inexpensive adapters we
could turn each of these into as many as
five SATA ports giving us support for 20
conventional hard drives we were more
interested though in a tiny power
efficient solid state Nas now with only
one lane per Port we're not going to be
setting any speed records here but
realistically our 2 and 1/2 gig network
interface is going to limit us long
before those pcie Lanes will which
realistically gave us a lot of
flexibility with when it came to
choosing our ssds we obviously don't
want anything unreliable so we're not
going to go with the cheapest thing but
we don't need to spend a fortune either
so we picked these 4 TB mp34 drives from
Team group for $165 each they're only
gen 3 but they have a 5-year warranty
and they even come with a dam cach
though that shouldn't really have an
impact on the relatively sequential
video editing work that we would do off
of this thing at a trade show or
something and for that matter most Naas
Duties are pretty similar whether you're
using it for PC backup photo and movie
backup or even running a video streaming
server with Plex or jellyfin and besides
because you're configuring your own you
can choose lower capacity drives or you
can populate just two slots run them in
a mirror for redundancy then 6 months
later when you get a nice paycheck you
can add one or two more so some of you
are probably wondering then why do you
need a NZ instead of just using external
hard drives anyway well for starters
these things suck they're a single point
of failure and they're super easy to
lose by comparison a Naz can be shared
with anyone else on your network which
leads to point two having all of your
data on your personal machine is
something that I have advocated against
for years your daily driver is the most
likely to be infected by malware or to
suffer a malfunction putting any data
that's on it at risk with that said a
single copy on a Nas isn't best practice
either and you should always follow the
321 rule three copies of your data on
two types of media with one of them
being off site now we usually turn to
tras for these types of projects but
with this board being Arm based we were
forced to look for another option and
eventually we settled on omv or open
media Vault conveniently friendly Alex
website includes a link to a Google
Drive that has all the install files and
instructions for the different methods
of installation we're going to be going
from an s d card to our emmc storage the
process took about 25 minutes and at the
end gave us an IP that we could use to
access the guey for open media Vault we
chose raid five for a balance of
protection and capacity and after
compiling and syncing we were left with
dang almost 11.2 tab of capacity now we
want to connect it to our windows-based
computers so we enable SMB the protocol
that Windows uses for Network file
sharing and then create a shared Drive
let's see how we did different media
file copying from our desktop to our
tiny Nas wow completely saturating our 2
and 1/2 gig interface that's awesome I
wonder how much CPU usage is happening
yeah you can actually check that we
could check that yep pretty substantial
amount it's not very powerful and
transfer back wow there you go it's
almost like that's a lot of interface
for a 2 and 1/2 gig connection did I
mention it's completely flipping silent
barely even hot to the
touch what am I even listening for
there's no fan on it just whatever it
doesn't matter do you know where there
are fans though float plane oh go
subscribe to float plane this is all
fine and good but it doesn't answer the
question of how do we protect ourselves
against the very real threat of snatch
and smash well under the plug-in section
in omv you can grab photo prism an AI
powered photo library that we can use a
separate application to sync to in our
case we used photo sync so for just over
$5 we're able to sync our photos with
almost any storage solution you can
think of including photo prism and
what's really cool is the sync can work
both ways so if your phone ever dies and
you need to replace it you just resign
into photosync and you can sync back
from your Nas to whatever new phone you
get no monthly subscription just a
one-time payment of this many dollars
for the app compared to more common
setups x86 processors on traz or unraid
for example we did have times when we
needed a little extra tinkering and know
how to get things working but after Jake
spent a couple of hours getting Plex up
and running in a Docker container this
little guy handled streaming just great
to two concurrent clients at least at
1080p it did once we bumped it up to 4K
that was a different story but hey if
you're not super satisfied with the
playback off of this device that's okay
you can run the Plex server on a more
powerful machine in your house say your
gaming desktop and then just use this as
a beef caked out little external hard
drive all you need is a network switch I
am curious to see how it'll handle video
editing though as it turns out the
entire editing department is on lunch
right now so I guess I get to do
this I am scrubbing I am starting to
thing we've got our Apple Vision Pro
video here this is the Facebook version
of though hence the super obnox ious
aspect ratio I can't even tell what the
heck's going on people watch videos like
this this is terrible but you know what
isn't the nas why don't we try 1/ half
resolution it's not the fastest thing
ever but realistically this is
reasonably heavy 4K footage this was
such a great moment in this video and
you can't really appreciate it at all
because stupid aspect ratio yeah
Facebook so it's pretty great and if
open media Vault isn't your thing elex
list of supported os's includes versions
of Debian friendly wrt Ubuntu and even
Android so what are you waiting for it's
a Linus siiz Nas that can scale up to 32
terabytes of storage with a top speec
price of
$160 if you're okay with doing a bit of
work and the value is especially
apparent when you look at the cost of
the larger storage plans from the major
Cloud providers Google for instance
wants $600 a year for their 10 TB cloud
storage plan that means it would take
less than a year and a half to to pay
off this exact NZ in this configuration
with all the ssds and that's with us
going full LTT and making a solid state
NZ so what can I say other than I give a
strong recommendation to this small boy
just like I give a strong recommendation
to this small boy oh and to our sponsor
super micro their pedis scale storage
servers are designed and optimized to
support data intensive workloads like Ai
and machine learning they have
convenient rear IO and front
configurations to make networking easier
they're available in 1u and 2u form
factors and they support up to 32 of the
latest generation pcie Gen 5 nvme ssds
they also tout single socket sp5 AMD
epic 9004 series processors and up to 24
dim slots that's not dim that's that's
smart plus their 2,000 watt redundant
titanium level power supplies will keep
them chugging along reducing maintenance
costs and downtime not to mention there
supercloud composer Cloud management
platform grants you access to a unified
dashboard to integrate tasks into a
single intelligent solution so don't
wait learn more about super micro's
pedis scale servers in the description
box down below if you guys enjoyed this
video go check out the 90 terabyte nvme
server that I ended up building and not
taking home to my house it's kind of the
opposite of this but it's still a fun
educational video